Convert tailwind to ESM from CJS (#2998)
wasp-lang/wasp: web/docs/migration-guides/migrate-from-0-17-to-0-18.md

Reviewer: I'm not seeing this file in the docs. Is that on purpose?
<img width="470" height="424" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1897415b-5efe-4ffc-b464-41575cf51182" />

---
title: Migration from 0.17.X to 0.18.X
---

## What's new in 0.18.0?

### Wasp Tailwind Configuration Now Uses ESM

Wasp has transitioned from CommonJS (CJS) to ECMAScript Modules (ESM) for Tailwind configuration files.  
This affects both the **import/export syntax** and **file extensions** (`.cjs` ➝ `.js`).

## How to migrate?

To migrate your Wasp app from 0.16.X to 0.17.X, follow these steps:

### 1. Rename Tailwind Configuration Files

> Update the file extensions from `.cjs` to `.js`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the Tailwind configuration files' extensions from `.cjs` to `.js`:
```

- `tailwind.config.cjs` ➝ `tailwind.config.js`
- `postcss.config.cjs` ➝ `postcss.config.js`

### 2. Convert CJS Syntax to ESM

> Update your `tailwind.config.cjs` file to use ESM.

Reviewer: But they already updated the extension, so it's no longer `cjs`. Perhaps this should be step 1?

Author: True. I wrote steps independently, didn't think about the order.
I'll leave the order, but fix this.

Author: I switched them in the end, so there is less confusion.

<Tabs>

> <TabItem value="before" label="Before">

Reviewer: Oh, this is the final product, with both steps? Then I'd separate it into its own section.

Author: This was meant to show only the cjs -> esm change, but since we already did step 1 i also changed the name.
Hm.

Maybe then I should switch the steps after all so there is less confusion.
And have this be `tailwind.config.cjs` for both instances.

Author: Switched them, makes sense now.
